Communication/Design
Do you feel like the developers/team are silo-ed with tribal knowledge?
How does the organization avoid tribal knowledge (Confluence, internal stack overflow, wiki)?
How are architecture decisions made, especially when it will impact multiple teams
What is the development process (Scrum, SAFe, Kanban)

Type of Technology

Rcopia (medication management platform)
Prescribe
(Java, Spring, Rest API, Apnium, cypress, Selenium)
Integrated platform, how do we make this smarter
Make things flow better
How are you delivery to the doctor
Fiscal year goal, build for speciality Pharmacy
e-proscirbe, legend drugs, before things get on the certain list, common part of healthcare
insurance/pharmacy agreements
big gaps before they come into the legend. things that need prior authorization
patients have to go through hoops to get, there are certain things that doctor have to track and trail


rcopia

example: fibrosis, taking this drug for the last few years.



APIs.
Are there design principles or conventions you guys follow?
Do the microservices APIs have a standardized naming convention (including request query parameters, request body, response status codes, and response body?
Do you use Swagger/OpenAPI to document your API?

Code Base/Code Reviews
Is the code base a monorepo?
What is used for version control (git, perforce, svn)?
They use GIT
Is there a branch strategy or model that is being followed?
How many reviewer approvals are needed to merge a pr?
Does a PR need to pass different levels of feature/system/UI testing before it can be merged?
What version of Java are you using?
Are build artifacts stored on prem or in the cloud?
Are the applications using structure logging that can then be leveraged by an ELK stack for debugging and root cause analysis?

Testing Automation/CI
Is your CICD on premise or in the cloud?
Do you feel like you have enough resources for the CICD pipeline?
How long does it take different stages of the pipeline to run?
Does the pipeline run concurrently?
Hybird

Is the CI pipeline stable?
How long does it take to address CICD pipeline issues?
Is there a dedicated team that manages the CICD pipeline?
What frameworks do you use for your automation testing for both backend and frontend?
Junit, Pytest, Postman, Selenium, ...etc
Are Feature Test Plans written?
Is Test Case Management Software such as (Testlink or QTest) being used?
Do software developers do both dev and test work or is there a clear delineation between dev work and test work?
Partnership, collaborative, root cause analysis
How are bugs tracked, triaged, and assigned?

Release Process/CD
What is your release process like (every 2 weeks, every quarter)
What determines when a feature is completed and ready to be released?
What is the biggest bottleneck in your release cycle

Do you guys have an application that integrates with wearable technology (Garmin/Apple Watch) to assist in horizontal communication with other clients, vendors, or physicians?


Friday at 2pm 